So you're tired of renting out equipment and want to get yourself a snowboard. You know your skill level, and you know the types of boards available. You also figured out how much you're willing to cash out for your new board. So what else is left to figure out before that buying decision? Let us run you through the different specifications of the most essential equipment you need for this snow sport. 

Snowboard length - How long should my snowboard be? 

Length is one of the essential characteristics of the board itself. To find the perfect board for you, it is best to compare the board length to your height. Although there are no definite rules in choosing a board based on its length, here are a few tips to set you off. 

The snowboard is measured from the tip of the nose to the end of its tail. Short boards usually reaches up between your collar bone and chin when holding the board on its end. Since these boards are easier to control, most beginners will have an easier time training on these. Short boards are also preferred by riders who are into park and pipe riding for easier trick execution, and used in freestyle riding as they are easily maneuvered. Medium length boards, on the other hand, are those that measure up between your chin and eyebrows. Intermediate and advanced riders prefer this board for riding in varied terrain and steeps. Long boards are those that go from between the forehead to a few inches over your head. These boards are mainly used by those who tread big mountain terrains and are used for high-speed carving and deep powder snow surface. Longer boards are usually used by riders who are into backcountry snowboarding, freeriding and racing. 

Shorter boards are also suitable who are lighter in weight for better control of the board. Average built people would rather use medium length boards, while heavier individuals may want to go for the long boards to maintain optimum performance even at higher speeds. 

Keep in mind that if you intend to make a run for it on the slopes, then it is best that you go five centimeters longer than the average board size. But if you are more on the conservative side and keep it slow, then go down five centimeters from the average. 

The snowboard doesn't do all the work for you. But keeping these tips in mind in buying that snowboard can give you all the help you need.