
A Halfpipe is basically a U-shaped bowl that allows riders to move from one wall to the other by making jumps and performing Snowboarding Tricks on each transition. Half pipes originated in skateboarding, and the whole phenomenon has now made its way to snowboarding. In this section, we are going to look at halfpipes such as you might encounter in Snow Resorts and Snowboard Parks Worldwide. To start with, let's take a look at the Halfpipe Schematic drawn below: 

Snowboarding Halfpipe Schematic



A Halfpipe Schematic  (show the halfpipe.gif image)


These are the Elements of a Halfpipe:

o Flat
    Is the center flat floor of the Halfpipe

o Transitions/Trannies
    The curved transition between the horizontal flat and the vertical walls

o Verticals/Verts
    The vertical parts of the walls between the Lip and the Transitions

o Platform/Deck
    The horizontal flat platform on top of the wall

o Entry Ramp
    The beginning of the halfpipe where you start your run


Halfpipe Snowboarding

Before you start, keep this in mind: a Halfpipe is no beginner's terrain. You will need excellent edge- and turning control before you try your first run. Make sure you are able to ride fakie as well since you'll probably do it a lot in the Halfpipe. It would help a lot with the transitions between the flats and the walls of the pipe if you can jump smoothly. Moreover, to make your run less trying when you start out, try starting a bit further down the pipe. You can go further up the pipe to take your runs as you improve your skills. 

Traversing
When riding the Halfpipe for the first time, it is important that you practice first. You can do this by simply traversing the transitions of the Halfpipe, similar with what you did when Learning How to Ride Down Regular Slopes. It is a weird sensation going up and down the same slope when all you are used to are one way descends. 

Slide Turns
Once you have quite gotten the feeling, you can try real turns. You will be making turns up and down the same slope so you have to learn how to roll your edges. Rolling your edges means that you will be ascending the transition with one edge and descending with the opposite edge. Practice the Slide Turns by going higher and higher up in the transition.

Jump Turns
Once you are going higher and higher up the wall, you will at one time almost take-off into the air, leaving the lip of the wall. Go for it and make a little jump at the lip, and turn in mid air. As with all jumps, keep your knees bent in the landing and close to your body while in the air. Try getting more and more air and make sure to concentrate on the lip. You do not want to land on the platform with your nose digging into it. 

