How long should my Snowboard be?

Length is one of the most important characteristics of a Snowboard. The length of a Snowboard is measured from the tip of the nose to the end of the tail. The length is usually measured in centimeters and often abbreviated to just the last two digits. Board length varies from 100cm to 180cm. 

To find the appropriate length for you, start by comparing the board length to your height. Although there are no dead set Rules in Selecting Board Length, the following are several guidelines to get you started. When holding the board on its end:

 o Short board should reach somewhere between your collar bones and chin. Shorter boards are easier to maneuver, great to be trained on, and often preferred by riders who do a lot of Snowboarding Tricks, park and Pipe Riding.

 o Medium length should come up between your chin and eyebrows. This length is preferred by all around intermediate to advanced riders who ride a variety of terrain, including parks and steeps.

 o Long boards should go from your forehead to several inches over the top of your head. Long boards are used for high-speed carving, deep powder snow surface, and big mountain terrain.

Choosing the suitable board length is not only influenced by your height but also by your weight. Keep in mind that a Snowboard acts like a leaf spring - it has no clue how tall the person standing on it is. However, it does know your weight. Based on your weight or body structure, the following will help you choose the Right Length of Snowboard:

 o Lighter people should have shorter, more flexible boards. This is because a lighter person on a longer board commonly has a hard time controlling the board and initiating turns.

 o For an averagely built person, the board length should reach somewhere between the chin and your nose.

 o Heavier people should have longer, less flexible boards. A short board isn't advisable for heavy riders because the board often have a tendency to "wash out" or perform poorly, especially at higher speeds.

 o Freestyle riding is often done with a shorter board to allow better maneuverability.

 o Freeriding, deep snow, and racing boards will be longer in size.

 o For riders who are into Backcountry Snowboarding, go longer for stability.

 o You may also consider your aggressive or timid style. If you're the type of boarder who really attacks the hill, you'll want to increase the length of your Snowboard up to five centimeters from the average size. Then again, if your riding style is naturally slower in character, go down five centimeters. Still, keep in mind that one Snowboard doesn't do it all. 