How Flexible should my Snowboard be?

There are two kinds of flexibility for a snowboard:

  o Torsional Flex. This is the flex across the width of a Snowboard, between the two edges. The torsional flex defines how well a board will hold on its edge. More torsional flex will make it easier to twist the board which is important in sharper turns. But too much torsional flex would not allow the board to arc fully and would take a lot of effort to initiate a turn. On the other hand, not enough torsional flex would make it difficult to keep the Snowboard on its edge during the completion of the turn.

  o Longitidunial Flex. This indicates how flexible the Snowboard is from tip to tail. Having a balanced flex pattern will allow the board to ride and carve a turn evenly. In contrast, an unbalanced flex pattern (either the board's nose is softer or the tail is stiffer) allows the rider to get onto the other edge faster since it tends to accelerate the board out of the turns quicker.

A soft, flexible Snowboard is great for beginning riders, especially for kids, since a flexible board will turn more quickly and with greater ease at low speeds than a stiffer or longer board. Also, it requires less technique and strength. 

Freestyle riders need more flexible Snowboards for more board control and maneuverability. On the other hand, freeriders, especially carvers, need stiffer boards to keep their boards under control in higher speeds. This is because stiffer Snowboards with rigid torsional flex are better on groomed runs and open terrain, as well as at high speeds. 

Regardless of whether you're a freestyler, freerider, or carver, keep in mind that the softer the Snowboard, the easier you can maneuver it. In general, Snowboards are comparatively softer as they get shorter. Still, you will find variations in flex that can affect your performance. Typically, if you have a lighter frame (55 to 61 kg) you should go for a softer board. If you are averagely built (61 to 68 kg), look for a medium-flex board. Accordingly, heavier people (68 kg and above) need stiffer boards. 
