Ski Safety - First Aid for Snowboarding & Skiing

Extreme sports are often synonymous to extreme excitement. But for every rush of adrenaline that one gets when he or she rides the Snowboard, there is a certain amount of risk of losing one's balance and falling down. The risk is magnified even more if one ventures out of the Snow Resorts and into the Backcountry. There is more or less one snowboarder in his or her own and if an accident happens, help may not immediately be on the way. 

We find it important, therefore, to introduce you to the different kinds of First Aid for the different kinds of accident that you or your companion might encounter in the outdoor. In that way, you will know how to respond to any possible situation given to you, instead of merely panicking. 

The information given in this section are in no way complete but will give you some of the basics of First Aid. Bear in mind that the data on the following sections are for informational purposes only and should not be considered as a substitute for a health care provider's expert advice. 

First Aid Basics

First Aid Training is essential if you are engaged in an extreme sports activity such as Snowboarding since it is usually done in areas where medical help is not readily available. Learn about the Basics of First Aid so you will know what to do in an injury situation. 

Bleedings & Tourniquets

Bear in mind that a tourniquet is the last option in order to control severe bleeding. It should only be applied when everything else fails to help avoid too much blood loss. Know more about external and internal bleeding and learn how to apply a tourniquet. 

Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)

Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation is an emergency procedure for someone whose pulse rate and breathing cannot be discerned. It is important to know how to do administer it properly. Learn how to perform CPR in case the situation calls for it. 

Fractures & Applying Splints

A Splint is a device which is used to immobilize fractured limbs. Not everyone can apply a splint. You should have adequate First Aid Training before you can use it on a victim. Know how to deal with fractures - assessment of the situation and applying splints. 

Frostnip & Frostbite

Frostbite is a medical condition which occurs when body parts are exposed to extreme cold for a considerable period of time. In this section, know the different stages of Frostbite and learn how to treat Frostnip as well as FrostBite. 

Heat Exhaustion & Heat Stroke

Heat Stroke is a condition which is usually caused by too much exposure to heat. The body's system of cooling down is unable to regulate the heat that the body absorbed. Know more about heat illnesses and learn how to treat Heat Exhaustion and Heat Stroke. 

Hypothermia

Hypothermia is a medical condition which usually occurs when the body is exposed extreme cold for a certain period of time. It can be really dangerous when the body temperature drops very quickly. Learn the First Aid treatment of Hypothermia. 

Spinal Injuries

Be very careful when dealing with Spine and/or Neck Injuries. These are serious cases which can lead to paralysis and even death. In this section, learn how to deal with Neck and Spinal Injuries - assessment of the situation and treatment. 

Sprains & Strains

A Sprain is caused by overstretching of the ligaments, whereas a Strain is an injury in which muscle fibers are pulled too much. Learn how to deal with Sprains and Strains - assessment of the situation, initial care, and recovery.


Remember that you need training and knowledge about emergency first aid since there are things that are to be taken into consideration before you can administer it. The sections above are intended only to provide information. The data you will find here cannot be a substitute for a formal First Aid Training. 
