Snowboard Buying Guide & Shop - How & Where to buy a Snowboard

Buying a Snowboard is not as easy as it may seem. There are many inferior types of Snowboards available in the market today. Thus, be extra careful in Selecting a Snowboard. What follows is a quick menu to our Snowboards Shop where you can choose from our extensive collection of Freestyle, Freeride (All Mountain), and Alpine (Carving) Boards. 

Learn How to Buy a Snowboard in this section: 

The board is Snowboarding's primary piece of equipment. We offer the Largest Collection of Snowboards on the web! 
Here you can find advice on what to look out for. 

Freeride Snowboards

Freeride Boards are good all-mountain, park & halfpipe boards designed to float well on Powder. It is the most popular kind of snowboard. This Type of Snowboard bridges the gap between Freestyle and Alpine carving. Go check our shop for a variety of Freeride Snowboards. 

Freestyle Snowboards

Freestyle Snowboards are very responsive to the rider and are the best choice for beginners. Before you buy your Snowboard, you must know what it consists of, what its different elements are, and how it works. Knowing all about Snowboards is a first step to choosing the appropriate board for you. 


For beginning riders, it is always better to rent first before buying a Snowboard. Renting a board will allow you to try out a range of models and brands of Snowboards. This will also help you find out the appropriate Riding Style for you. Most Ski or Snow Resorts and a lot of local sporting goods shops offer Snowboard rentals. 

When Choosing a Snowboard, the main question should certainly NOT be, "How will this cool board look with the rest of my Snowboard Gear? You need to at least be familiar with several things about yourself, the Snowboards, and the different riding styles before you can choose a board that is suitable for you and your level. This guide will help you choose a board that will not only enhance your learning and performance in Snowboarding, but also Ensure your Safety on the Slopes.

