Snowboarding Safety - Avalanche Awareness

Avalanches are a real danger for all those who visit snowy mountainous areas. Avalanches claim hundreds of lives worldwide every year and leave thousands wounded. Ninety-five percent of people who are caught in avalanches are caught by a slide that was triggered by themselves or a member of their party. Many of these accidents could have been avoided if those involved had a higher degree of Avalanche Awareness. This section will provide you with some basics about Avalanche Awareness and Avalanche Survival and Rescue that you should know before heading up the mountain. 

Causes of Avalanche

Weather is just one of the many factors that can cause an avalanche. Know the different causes of avalanche in this section. 

Avalanches - Types

The avalanche comes in many types. Some types can bring about mild effects, while others can be very damaging and life-threatening. Get familiar with the different kinds of avalanche in this section. 

Avalanche Dangers

An avalanche can cause injuries and can even lead to death of a victim. In this section, be familiar with the dangers that an avalanche can bring and know what to do when an avalanche occurs. 

Avalanche Checklist

Any traveler should know the factors to look at that might cause avalanche. Awareness of the nature of an avalanche can help save your life. A checklist on how to predict disasters will give you a big step ahead. 

Avalanche Rescue

Rescuing an avalanche victim is very critical. Before going out for a snow adventure, one must be knowledgeable enough on how to rescue victims of an avalanche and of course, how to save yourself in case the situation occurs. 

Avalanche Rescue and Safety Equipment

To be able to help in a rescue operation, you must be familiar with the pieces of equipment which are useful in avalanche rescue and you should know how to use them. 


Feed your mind with information that will make you become more observant of your surroundings. Having the right attitude and awareness will help you survive in all aspects of life. 