On Piste - Piste Etiquette, Guidelines, & Rules

Although Snowboarding and Skiing are individual sports, you need to remember that in most occasions you will be sharing the slopes and pistes with other enthusiasts. To avoid Snowboarding Injuries and to increase general piste safety, some Common Rules have been designed. Learn, understand and follow these guidelines at all times. Be a good ambassador of the sport!

o Ski or snowboard under control and make sure you have enough control to be able to stop or avoid objects at will when needed. You can push your boundaries, but know your limit.
o If you are overtaking another skier or snowboarder, it is your responsibility to avoid hitting the slower skier or rider. Take any abrupt movement of slower going people into account and make sure you have a clear picture of your surroundings at all times.
o Do not stop, sit down or rest in the middle of the piste. If you plan to do any of them, make sure you are out of the general traffic and that other people can clearly see you.
o When you are starting your run, give way to other skiers and snowboarders. Check your back and blind spot before entering your descent.
o Always use supporting gear that will prevent your gear from sliding down the slope and potentially hitting other people.
o Stick to the Rules and Piste Etiquette set out by the caretakers of the Snow Resort. Follow all Snow Resort Signs and do not enter closed trails.
o Make sure to have a clear picture of the weather, Snowboarding Snow Conditions and the routes in the snow resort. Let those aspects dictate your Snowboarding.
o Do not make Snowboard Jumps if you cannot see the landing site. Never ride hard into an unknown area.
o If you are in any way involved in an accident, stay on the accident scene and offer any assistance. Report the accident to the patrol of the resort.
o Never go Snowboarding Off Piste alone and stay in close contact with the people you are going off slope with.
o If you want to take Snowboarding Pictures, be sure that you are not getting in the way of other riders.

In Snowboarding, there are risks involved. Minimize the occurrence of these risks by following certain etiquettes, guidelines, and rules. Abide by the guidelines listed above and your safety will somehow be guaranteed. Have a safe and enjoyable Snowboarding experience!