Snowboarding Safety and Guidelines
Snowboarding is a high speed Mountain Extreme Sport that exposes you to different levels of dangers. The risks related with being on a snowy mountain are only a part of the hazards you are drawing yourself into. Many snowboarders get seriously injured each year and some even die due to "pilot errors". Before you go Snowboarding, it is essential that you have some basic knowledge of the possible risks you may encounter on or off the slope so you can take precautions and know how to handle emergency situations.
 
Snowboarding Injuries and Prevention
  o When you are into Snowboarding, you may encounter injuries on the wrists, ankles, knees, and head. Know the most common Snowboarding Injuries and learn how you can prevent them.

Snowboarding Injuries - Snowboarder's Ankle
  o Snowboarder's Ankle is one of the five most common injuries in Snowboarding and Skiing. Know more about Snowboarder's Ankle in this section.

Snowboarding Injuries - Wrist Fractures
  o Scaphoid fractures and Colles fractures of the wrist are relatively common, with around 100,000 wrist fractures worldwide among snowboarders each year.

Snowboarding Safety - Avalanche Awareness
  o Avalanches are a clear danger when on snowy mountain slopes. Learn the different kinds of avalanches, how to prevent causing one and how to perform search and rescue in avalanche situations.

On Piste - Piste Etiquette, Guidelines, & Rules
  o It is important for you to learn the different Piste Etiquette, Guidelines, & Rules so that you know what to ensure your safety when it comes to Snowboarding! Read more about it here.

Snowboarding First Aid
  o All who practice an activity with increased chances of injury should have a basic First Aid knowledge. Know how to deal with injuries that you may encounter in Snowboarding.

When you are into Snowboarding or any Outdoor Activity, safety should always be taken into consideration. Take the necessary precautions before heading out. Also, it pays to be knowledgeable on the things that need to be done during emergency situations.
