Splitboards

Splitboarding is a relatively new winter sports activity but it is already gaining popularity among avid skiers and snowboarders. This activity offers the best of both worlds. You can go Skiing or Snowboarding using the same piece of equipment. 

The main equipment used in this sport activity is the Splitboard which has the same shape and construction like the average snowboard. However, Splitboards are designed to split apart into two that become skis during “ski mode”. An interface connects the two skis during “ride mode” or when you want it to use as a board. High performance splitboards that can stand snow conditions other than powder are available in the market today. 

The dual use of the Splitboard allows anyone to climb the mountain like a back country skier and go downhill like a snowboarder. This exceptional feature of Splitboarding is the main reason why it attracts winter sports enthusiasts. One would not need the help of the lift to go up the mountain. Anyone can just ski or board by just switching the mode of the Splitboard. 

Splitboarding is also ideal when going out in the back country as it offers added floatation, ease when carrying a backpack, and gliding ability. Because of the climbing skins located on the underside of the Splitboards, one can have a guaranteed traction while on the mountain. 

Anyone who has tried doing Snowboarding will not have a difficult time learning this sport. But like any other winter activity, beginners should first need basic back country skills and avalanche awareness. For safety purposes, one should do Splitboarding in safe areas and during favorable weather conditions. A buddy system is also mandatory because there’s usually no ski patrol available. Besides, it would be a great help if someone can check on you while you are on the slope. 


How to Convert your Splitboard

Switching the mode of the Splitboard from ride mode to ski mode only takes 1 – 2 minutes. Start off by unlatching the tips and the tails of your Snowboard. The interface that connects the skis is basically made up of metal hooks. Then move your bindings from ride mode to ski mode. Finally, apply the climbing skins underneath your board and proceed with Skinning. Switching the board back to ride mode entails the same steps only in reverse. But remember to scrape off the ice the board before you convert the modes of your Splitboard so that it will fit together easily. Learn to practice how to transfer the modes of your Splitboard and you’ll get used to it amidst all snow conditions. 


Skinning

Skinning on the slope using your Splitboard definitely requires concentration and coordination. In Skinning, it helps if you maintain an upright stance and look straight ahead rather than bowing down. Perform strides but push yourself forward using your heels and not your toes. Have a firm grip on the snow by keeping your skis as flat as possible. Do not spread out the poles but instead keep them closer to your body. Maintain a steady pace and use your crampons if you begin to slip. 

Like in any other winter sports activity, anyone who wishes to try Splitboarding should practice precautionary measures. Splitboarders should bring basic back country equipment like avalanche gear, basic first-aid, water and food, map and compass and follow safety guidelines while on the mountain. 


Splitboards are already available in many outdoor shops thus, signifying Splitboarding's popularity among winter sports enthusiasts. Make sure to check out Splitboarding and discover what it can offer you. 